nnaurora: "List of interesting QSL PRs requesting attention:\n\n<https://github.com/QuiltMC/quilt-standard-libraries/pull/53> - Event phases [Urgent]\n<https://github.com/QuiltMC/quilt-standard-libraries/pull/40> - Item Group API\n<https://github.com/QuiltMC/quilt-standard-libraries/pull/33> - Command API\n<https://github.com/QuiltMC/quilt-standard-libraries/pull/41> - Block Extensions API\n<https://github.com/QuiltMC/quilt-standard-libraries/pull/54> - Loot Table API [port]\n<https://github.com/QuiltMC/quilt-standard-libraries/pull/42> - Entity Events [WIP]"

**AlizÃ©e**: "> can hashed work as an intermediary without qm? I forgot but you probably already said."

**!alpha**: "How do you guys plan on handling conflicts on hashed? Hashing does not guarantee uniqueness."

**!alpha**: "Why does chasm need a custom language?"

**Tehc**: "can I use ordinal mappings instead of hashed in dev env?"

nngli: "I want to contribute to <PROJECT>. Where do I get started? Also, how do I join triage teams for QSL and Mappings?"

**asie**: "Have you looked into clearer communication outside of the Quilt community regarding the project's goals? I find that there's poor awareness of Quilt's technological goals, particularly its improvements and proposals. Just now, someone told me they thought Quilt is still in the \"many RFCs, little code\" stage. I think it would be good for the project to communicate what benefits it brings to the player, modder and/or modpack creator over (or just like) prior solutions."

**Lith/Helium**: "are there still plans on auto dependencies downloading?"

nnkb: "What teams need help the most?"

nnaurora: "Could CHASM be used to determine any patches at compile time and maybe generate a GraalVM native image with all the patches applied?"
